--Part four. The safety net.
p-1
p-2
p-3
p-4
p-5
h-1
p-6
--You POST a profile to the validate endpoint and get back a structured response.
p-8
--Take the level-versus-resolution case. The error tells you Level 4.1 caps at 1080p but the output asks for 3840 by 2160, and the fix says raise the level to 5.1 or drop the resolution. Concrete instructions, not "something is wrong".
p-9
h-2
p-10
h-3
p-11
p-12
h-4
p-13
p-14
h-5
p-15
p-16
h-6
p-17
p-18
p-19
p-20
h-7
p-21
p-22
h-8
p-23
h-9
p-24
h-10
p-25
p-26
h-11
p-27
p-28
h-12
p-29
--The endpoint takes a profile plus a source video file ID and returns a per-stream action plan.
p-31
--For each video, audio, and subtitle stream, the preview names the action — copy, transcode, extract, or skip — and the reason. It also surfaces source-level warnings the plain validator could not catch. Variable frame rate. Dolby Vision that will be stripped. Upscaling that will be clamped. The user sees everything before committing to the encode.
p-32
p-33
h-13